# Containerize our app 

## Creating the Dockerfile

In part 1 we created our sample app. Now in this part we will containerize it using a Dockerfile.

If you have Rider or Visual Studio you can easily add this via the settings.

And you can see it generated the Dockerfile for us. Alternatively you can copy this in your repo.

And remember to add the .dockerignore file as well in case you manually copy it.

Generated Dockerfile by Rider:

```Dockerfile
FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspnet:6.0 AS base
WORKDIR /app
EXPOSE 80
EXPOSE 443

FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:6.0 AS build
WORKDIR /src
COPY ["TodoApi/TodoApi.csproj", "TodoApi/"]
RUN dotnet restore "TodoApi.csproj"
COPY . .
WORKDIR "/src/"
RUN dotnet build "TodoApi.csproj" -c Release -o /app/build

FROM build AS publish
RUN dotnet publish "TodoApi.csproj" -c Release -o /app/publish

FROM base AS final
WORKDIR /app
COPY --from=publish /app/publish .
ENTRYPOINT ["dotnet", "TodoApi.dll"]
```

I needed to modify a few things here and first one was:

- `COPY ["TodoApi/TodoApi.csproj", "TodoApi/"]` needs to be: `COPY ["TodoApi.csproj", "TodoApi/"]`
- `RUN dotnet restore "TodoApi.csproj"` needs to be: `RUN dotnet restore "TodoApi/TodoApi.csproj"`


## Creating the image

In order to create the application docker image, run the following command where it will create a image name todoapi tag with version 0.1.0:

`$ docker build -t todoapi:0.1.0 .`

## Running the container

`$ docker run --rm -it -p 8000:80 todoapi:0.1.0`

And let's check it by accessing the url in your browser: `http://localhost:8000/weatherforecast`

This creates the image andrewlock/todoapi:0.1.0 on my local machine. 

In real life scenario, this image would be pushed to a docker repository for others to use like DockerHub or ACR, but for now we can keep it locally.

## Pushing to the container (Optional)

Let's say you wanted to push it to docker hub. What would next steps be?

In this case you would need to tag it with your account that you can create in DockerHub if you need one.

#### The you need to tag image with your id:

anaczlobster is my dockerhub id.

`$ docker tag todoapi:0.1.0 anaczlobster/todoapi:0.1.0`

#### Login to dockerhub

`$ docker login`

#### Push the image

`$ docker push anaczlobster/todoapi:0.1.0`
