# Creating the Helm charts

To recap, in previous parts we created a sample app, we dockerized it and now it is ready to be deployed to your Kubernetes.

We will be using helm CLI to create our charts. At this point let's double check that you have installed the Helm command line and prerequisites, and have configured your local kubectl environment to point to a Kubernetes cluster.

First thing let's create our `charts` folder in the root of your repository and get into that folder:

```
$ mkdir charts
$ cd charts
```

Here let's run: the `$ helm create todoapi` command. 

This command creates a chart directory along with the common files and directories used in a chart.

This will create a structure as follows:

```
.
└── todoapi
    ├── Chart.yaml
    ├── charts
    ├── templates
    │   ├── NOTES.txt
    │   ├── _helpers.tpl
    │   ├── deployment.yaml
    │   ├── hpa.yaml
    │   ├── ingress.yaml
    │   ├── service.yaml
    │   ├── serviceaccount.yaml
    │   └── tests
    │       └── test-connection.yaml
    └── values.yaml

4 directories, 10 files
```

There are a few parts to this structure:
* The *Chart.yaml* file includes the name, description, and version number of your app. It can also include various other metadata and requirements.
* The *charts folder* is empty in the sample, but it provides one way to manage dependencies on other charts, by creating "child" charts.
* The *templates folder* is where the manifests that make up your chart are placed. In the sample chart the deployment, service, and ingress can be used to run an instance of NGINX.
* The *values.yaml* file includes default values for your application that can be overridden when your chart is deployed. This includes things like port numbers, host names, docker image names etc.

The file called `_helpers.tpl` is the default location for template partials that the rest of the yaml files rely on as we will see.

For the installation of the charts you can either go one by one and make use of the helm install/upgrade commands OR you can add this in your CI/CD pipelines.

Going by the command line could look something like:
```
$ helm upgrade todoapi /charts/todoapi --install --wait --atomic --namespace=todoapi --set=app.name=todoapi --values=/charts/todoapi/values.yaml
```
where:

- `/charts/todoapi` - is the location of your Chart.yaml file
- `values=/charts/todoapi/values.yaml` - is the location of the values file
- `--wait` - will wait until either the release is successful or the default timeout is reached (5m) if no timeout is specified
- `--atomic` - if set, upgrade process rolls back changes made in case of failed upgrade
Check the full synopsis of the command here.

### helm install or helm upgrade --install?

The install sub-command always installs a brand new chart, while the upgrade sub-command can upgrade an existing chart and install a new one, if the chart hasn't been installed before.

For simplicity you can always you the upgrade sub-command.

Next steps:

Let's start our minikube local cluster by running the following command:

`$ minikube start`

You will notice it will notice that it will start the local cluster and will use the *default* namespace.

Let's deploy our app.

In order to deploy our application, the minimum we need to set up is a service and a deployment file. So let's strip the rest.

### Testing the chart

Run the following command:

`$ helm lint ./todoapi`

### Deploy the chart

If all is good let's install it:

`$ $ helm upgrade todoapi /charts/todoapi --install --wait --atomic --namespace=todoapi --set=app.name=todoapi --values=/charts/todoapi/values.yaml`

### List the deployment

`$ helm list`

Should show status like: DEPLOYED

### Accessing the application

In order to access the application, you need to know the port assigned, you can get the port as follows:

`$ kubectl get services`

And access the app: http://localhost:<PORT_OF_YOUR_APP>/weatherforecast


### Delete the deployment

`$ helm delete todoapi --purge`


And you can stop your minikube instance after this.
